---
layout: post
title: Differing Perspectives, Part 2
date: 2017-12-13
category: vietnam
comments: true
---

Our first day in Hanoi was a Sunday, which we discovered was typically a quiet day, and Monday brought out a much livelier city. Venturing away from the still-relative quiet of the lake made us realize something very quickly - crossing the road in Hanoi is a hairy affair!

The streets, (and sidewalks!), are teeming with people, motorbikes, and cars, all in motion. Nobody stops, even for stoplights. If you are a pedestrian and you want to cross the road, you wait for a hole in the traffic, and just start walking. While it's best to stop for cars, the motorbikes which make up the vast majority of the traffic, won't so much yield as flow around you. This all results in a strangely beautiful, albeit rather dangerous, ballet.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_180139.jpg" caption="Some of the traffic on the streets of Hanoi, though pictures don't really do it justice. We saw a few crashes while walking around the city, though it was notable that the people around the crash typically ran over to help the driver get out of the road, and to the relative safety of the sidewalk." %}

As is our wont, we wandered around the city for a time, taking in the sights. Hanoi feels like both a southeast Asian and European city at the same time, and it was cool to see various styles mashed together. There were fruit hawkers and street food stalls next to big box electronic stores and European cafes, and old folks in traditional garb on motorbikes driving by cadres of young professionals who looked like they just got out of a Wall Street meeting. We found plenty of green spaces, and some of the most delicious coffee we've ever had, which was a departure from the instant coffee that we'd had to endure for our caffeine fixes in most of the countries we'd been to!

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_160317.jpg" caption="This building in particular looked to us like it took queues from both sides of the globe" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_150240.jpg" caption="A lake and park with an Eiffel tower clone in the background" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_145912.jpg" caption="A wood carving in the same park as seen above" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171122_141940.jpg" caption="Very European, indeed." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171122_122540.jpg" caption="Justin was given a fruit hawker's hat and fruit for a photo op. This turned out to be a very expensive photo, as the hawker swapped out our change and gave us 10,000 VND back instead of 100,000.  We weren't paying close enough attention, but that certainly taught us a lesson we didn't want to repeat!" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_174137.jpg" caption="The same tower at night, with the Vietnamese flag flying" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171122_134616.jpg" caption="It doesn't look like much, but the combination of very bitter beans and condensed milk leads to something truly wonderful" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171122_132521.jpg" caption="Tofu and mushroom Phở!" %}

we didn't have to wander far to find echoes of the past, including the Vietnamese empires, the French colonial regime, and of course, the Vietnam War.

When we went to museums about the Vietnam war, it was interesting, though at times difficult, to see this perspective. Hanoi was the capital of North Vietnam, and the US backed South Vietnam in the war. After the South lost, the two countries were unified. As history tends to be written by the winner, the US's involvement is not kindly represented, and it's never fun when your country is the Bad Guy. What is interesting however, is that more recent interactions between the US and Vietnam are shown in a very positive light, oftentimes in the next room of the museum.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_120527.jpg" caption="Hoa Lo was once a small settlement that made pottery, like that seen here. Per the museum, the prison was opened on top of this area when the French needed a place to hold political prisoners" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_125844.jpg" caption="The entrance to Maison Centrale, aka Ha Loa, aka The Hanoi Hilton. This place has a long, dark history. For most of the prison's history, it was used by the French to hold Vietnamese political prisoners during the Vietnamese uprisings. It then converted to hold US pilots shot down during the Vietnam War. Exhibits inside claim that Americans referred to it as the Hilton because it was such a nice place to stay. It would seem the irony was lost in translation." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_122527.jpg" caption="One of the guillotines used during the French colonial times" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_154111.jpg" caption="The remains of a B-52 that was shot down over Hanoi" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_121232.jpg" caption="Depiction of how Vietnamese political prisoners were held in Hoa Lo" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171122_151733.jpg" caption="Ho Chi Minh mausoleum" %}
 
The history of Vietnam goes back well over a thousand years, so we had a lot that to learn about it that didn't have anything to do with wars in the 20th century. One of the more impressive places we went was the Temple of Literature, a Temple of Confucius. The temple hosts the Imperial Academy, Vietnam's first national university, which was founded sometime shortly after 1225 CE.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_133449.jpg" caption="These stone steles depict the names of graduates of the Imperial Academy" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_134220.jpg" caption="Grand Entrance" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_134144.jpg" caption="Dana meets a friend" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_135515.jpg" caption="Reproductions of 1000 year old wood carvings" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171123_140918.jpg" caption="I don't wanna work, I just wanna bang on the drum all day!" %}

After a few days in Hanoi, we hopped on a night train to our next destination, Sa Pa. We were looking forward to some trekking!

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20171121_143619.jpg" caption="Yes, yes. Trekking sounds delightful" %}
