---
layout: post
title: Just Scratching the Surface of Sydney
date: 2018-04-11
category: australia
comments: true
---

We were lucky enough to ring in the new year down under, and with 2018 still fresh we flew out to the capital of the southern hemisphere: Sydney.  We arrived there with no real expectations and no knowledge of the city, other than that there's a big spiky white building on the harbour that's probably slightly overrated.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180105_203725632.jpg" caption="Or...not overrated at all." %}

We made it to our hostel just in time to not check in, thanks to the weird hours kept by the staff, but managed to get sorted nonetheless. After getting our stuff stowed away, we checked out the rooftop of our hostel, and wandered around for some grub. Not a terribly eventful first day.

The next order of business was Justin's Birthday! Dana did a fair bit of research, and discovered a Bavarian biergarten a short train ride away from the hostel. The beer was delicious and cheap, and and we therefore have a treasure trove of lovely images from the evening.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180105_173607.jpg" caption="This can only end well." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180105_180810.jpg" caption="Justin had the only green stuff on the entire table. He must be getting old." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180105_200909.jpg" caption="Yes, there are more photos like this. No, you can't see them." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180105_202820.jpg" caption="Sydney skyline at dusk." %}

Having thoroughly enjoyed the night before, we were rather slow to get moving the next day. We even managed to miss a walking tour of Sydney that was to take place at two in the afternoon. Classy.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180106_100705.jpg" caption="The morning after. What a gorgeous specimen." %}

Undeterred, we did our own tour, which led us on a trip across the harbour to Manly.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180106_150411.jpg" caption="Back of the opera house. It kinda looks like a spaceship from this angle." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180106_150613.jpg" caption="A bit further out, and we were treated to a gorgeous view of the skyline." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180106_152333.jpg" caption="This boat was cruising along until it capsized a few minutes later. Woops!" %}

Upon landing at Manly Wharf, we grabbed some lunch and started hiking around. This place has A LOT of beaches, and a good amount of hiking trails winding along and through the waterfront. Eventually, the trail we were on meandered back inland, and we finished the day on Manly with a pint at one of the local breweries.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180106_171749618.jpg" caption="No crashing into the bandicoots, no matter how well Nintendo has conditioned you." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180106_165414.jpg" caption="One of Manly's many beaches. This particular trail took us all around this beach, and eventually led us passed St. Patrick's Seminary..." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180106_174552.jpg" caption="...which has been around since 1889. The seminary part was closed in 1995, and it is now part of the International School of Management. Fun fact: former Australian PM Tony Abbott attended this seminary, and dropped out, before it closed down." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180105_2.jpg" caption="On the way back. We were big fans of the skyline." %}

While we were in Sydney, we were lucky(?) enough to witness an historical event - the second hottest day on record in the Sydney metropolitan area. It was about 43C (110F) where we were in the city, and got up to 47C (~120F) in one surrounding town. After trying to brave the outdoors for an hour or two, we gave up and hid in a mall for the remainder of the day - it was actually too hot to get back to our hostel!

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180107_2.jpg" caption="Pictured: fanciful floats and general signs of happiness. Not pictured: our shoes melting into the ground." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180107_1.jpg" caption="Lunch while we hid in one of the malls. It was delicious, and gave us a much needed respite from the not-quite-but-almost record breaking heat outside." %}

After the heat subsided, we decided to get out of the city. Fortunately, Sydney has a pretty extensive public transit system, and we were able to get to the Blue Mountains National Park via an easy two hour train ride. Once there, we were able to hike to our hearts' content, and were treated to some fantastic views!

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180109_113537.jpg" caption="A view from the beginning of the trail near the Three Sisters rock formation. It wove in and around the rock outcropping and the landscape alternated between dense tree canopy and exposed rocks." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180109_122639.jpg" caption="A bit further along, this is one of the first views of the valley that we saw on the trail." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180109_140821.jpg" caption="A few hours later... The rock in the distance is the rock on the left of the previous picture." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180109_1.jpg" caption="This was taken from an outcropping near the end of the trail, which provided a view of where we had just come from. The trail is nearly invisible from here, but if you look near the waterfall in the centre, you can see a tiny glimpse." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180109_144448.jpg" caption="After a few hours of hiking up and down and around these beautiful cliffs, we were a bit delirious!" %}

During out last few days, we were able to catch up with some friends, found some interesting food, and checked out some of the animal attractions in the city. Since we were only there a week, we barely scratched the surface of Sydney. However, our months in the South Pacific had come to an end, and our adventure was taking us to our next continent: South America!

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180108_141218.jpg" caption="Justin found the most fluffiest of all puppies. We considered stealing him, but since his owner is a cop, we thought better of it." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180108_190021.jpg" caption="Meat pie with mushy peas on top, and mustard on top of that. Yes, it was weird. Good, but weird." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180110_140717.jpg" caption="Rainbow dumplings!" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_122415.jpg" caption="Kookaburra sits on the old gum tree..." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_123426.jpg" caption="Sadly, the only kangaroos we saw the whole trip." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_124856.jpg" caption="Whatchu lookin at?" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_125152.jpg" caption="Hahaha, that's so cute and funny..." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_130755.jpg" caption="Oh, that's the real one. It's <i>bigger</i> than the statue. Nope. Nope nope nope." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_143350.jpg" caption="This gal just loved coming by to say 'hello!'" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_145601.jpg" caption="Snaggletoothed nurse shark!" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180111_222027.jpg" caption="The view from our hostel window on the last night. The tower is the train station, which we had been walking the long way to and didn't realize till our last day. Whoops." %}

