---
layout: post
title: A Fantasy Town in the Clouds
date: 2017-12-07
category: vietnam
comments: true
---

We didn't have much time in Vietnam, and to be frank we were still pretty exhausted from Dana's adventures with food poisoning, but we wanted to see more of the country than just Hanoi.  We decided to spend a few days in Sa Pa, which is known in the backpacker scene for its beautiful setting in the hills surrounded by rice fields, and for its trekking.  We're big fans of beautiful scenery and hiking, so this sounded like the place for us!  Sa Pa is a former French outpost located up in the hills almost to the border of China; it stays relatively cool there even when Hanoi is suffering in the steamy heat of summer.  It's a ten hour sleeper train ride from Hanoi, or a six hour bus.  We opted to take the train there and the bus back.

The sleeper train delivered us, groggy but mostly awake (this was a million times better than the sleeper train in India), to a rainy and mist-shrouded train station at 6 AM. We found our way to a public bus, which then shuttled us another hour up the mountain to reach Sa Pa itself.  If we were hoping for the famed rice patty vistas, we were going to be disppointed.  The whole town was shrouded in thick fog, and a steady cold rain was pelting down.  It was about 38 degrees F that morning, which was by far the coldest weather we'd encountered yet on our trip!  Shivering and soggy, we found a nice warm cafe with a fireplace in one corner, where we hunkered down with the free wifi and some steamy drinks for a few hours and pretended to be awake.  The cozy ambiance of the cafe, the friendly proprieters who insisted we sit closest to the fire, and the absolutely delicious coffee and tea warmed us up inside and out.

We were eager to explore this mysterious town, with its steep muddy streets and vaguely colonial-looking buildings.  We checked into our hostel, got a few hours of snoozing, and then spent the evening wandering around.

There is no central heating in this town, so fireplaces are key.  We ended up chosing most of the bars and restaurants we frequented based on how good their fireplaces looked.  They also definitely know how to do cold weather drinks here!