---
layout: post
title: Something Awesome Here
date: 2018-04-19
category: uruguay
comments: true
---

After nearly five months abroad, our trip was finally winding down to its inevitable conclusion.  We had to go home sometime.  Our travels had been both easier and more difficult that we'd anticipated.  The internet has simplified travel so much; it's a matter of minutes to find a hostel that's budget-friendly and also unlikely to have bedbugs, and scoring cheap airfare or figuring out how to get to that temple across town are easier than ever.  What we didn't expect (despite reading all the travel blogs telling us to expect it) was how exhausting it can be to travel constantly for months at a time.  Who would have thought vacation could feel like work?  But when it's 11 PM and you have to figure out how to negotiate the umpteenth bus transfer to the umpteenth hostel, sometimes you just long for your own bed at home.  There are a lot of things you don't appreciate about home until you've been gone for a while.  Understanding the nuances of your own language, not standing out instantly as a foreigner by your skin color or accent, knowing exactly where to go to get really good tacos without having to ask someone or read reviews online.  It had taken a few months, but we were starting to crave a dose of the familiar.

So we had our return flights booked from Buenos Aires to Washington DC, just in time to make the Super Bowl party our friends throw every year.  But we still had one more week to explore South America!  Justin, after some web searching, discovered that a ferry from Buenos Aires would take us to Uruguay, just across the bay.  We couldn't resist the chance to see a whole new country just a few hours away, so we hopped on the ferry across the flat, mud-colored waters of the bay.  Two hours later we were dropped in Uruguay, then took a two hour bus ride to the capital of Montevideo.  We checked into our hostel, a cute little building with brightly painted shutters on a quiet street corner.  We were on the outskirts of the city, but we'd noticed that all the streets seemed pretty quiet.  None of the usual honking, hurrying, pedestrian-flattening traffic you'd normally see in a capital city.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180130_190518.jpg" caption="The peaceful streets in the ___ neighborhood of Montevideo." %}

The next morning, we followed our usual M.O. of trying to catch a walking tour...and failing because we were too late (one of us is not a morning person...we'll let you guess which one).  So we wandered around the city for a while, pretending we knew the story behind all the statues and serious-looking concrete buildings.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180131_105318.jpg" caption="No doubt this man is Very Important.  I mean, even his horse looks important." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180131_114728.jpg" caption="We walked down this loooooong concrete jetty with locals fishing all along it.  Then we had to walk back.  It was not terribly exciting." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180131_162556.jpg" caption="We hung out in this cute park for a few hours, enjoying the shade the sycamore trees offered since it was a sweltering day.  One man came up and asked us if we'd like to buy a copy of the novel he'd written.  We begged off since we don't speak spanish, but he was fun to talk to.  Another man noticed we looked like tourists (guilty as charged) and asked where we were from.  He was delighted to hear we were from the states, as he had formerly lived in Florida.  There seemed to be a lot of locals who had once lived in the US who approached us wanting to share stories and welcome us to their country. %}

We did eventually catch up with the afternoon walking tour, and had a fun guide who showed us a few of the many churches and historic sites in the city, and gave us a taste of the local anise liquer. We learned that mate tea is not just a drink here, it's a way of life.  Everyone walks around with a thermos of hot water clutched in the crook of their arm, holding a cup with a weird spoon/straw thing sticking out of it, which at first glance looks like some kind of drug paraphanalia (recreational pot is legal here, after all).  The cup holds the tea leaves, so people are constantly refilling their mugs and sipping the strong, bitter brew throughout the day.  Many people apparently never put their mugs down, so they become adept at balancing the mug and thermos while doing their everyday tasks.  Our guide joked that all Uruguans have a third hand just to brew and hold their tea.  He also taught us the meaning behind the city's name: on the maps of the Spaniards, the city appeared as Monte-VI De Este a Oeste, or the mount (hill) that is the VI (6th) visible on the coast the country.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180131_160328.jpg" caption="The tomb of _____." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180131_171500.jpg" caption="A cool statue of a shepherd and his seriously bummed out horse." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180201_1.jpg" caption="A mansion formerly belonging to a very wealthy dignitary in the city's past.  It's been restored and turned into a free museum open to the public." %}

After our tour ended and we grabbed a beer with some Canandians who had been on the tour with us, we took a walk along the long promenade that lines the shore for miles.  Montevideo is unique in that the city owns the entire shoreline, so it will never be developed into fancy houses like you would normally see in any city.  Instead, the public has access to the shore, and the buildings beside the promenade vary between affordable housing apartment blocks, government buildings, and parks.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180131_120903.jpg" caption="A section of the long promenade along the coast." %}

The Montevideans**** treat the shoreline as their personal backyard and gathering place.  Every evening after work was over, it seemed as if the whole city flooded to the coast, armed with lawn chairs, portable grills, coolers, dinners packed in tupperware, and of course the ever-present thermoses of mate.  People were jogging, rollerblading, biking, strolling, fishing, playing volleyball, or just relaxing with a beer and watching the sunset all along the promenade.  This was just an everyday weeknight for them.  Uruguay has been rated as having the best quality of life in South America every year since 2005, and it seems like this attitude might have something to do with that.

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180131_194026.jpg" caption="A beautiful, steamy sunset, when the city really seems to come alive." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180201_212500.jpg" caption="Someone practicing drums in one of the many parks along the coast." %}

*shot of skating rink*
*shot of our hotdogs*

After a few days in the capital, it was time to head  to Colonia, a port city where we would catch our ferry back to Argentina.  We were a little sorry to go.  Montevideo has a relaxed feeling, and all the locals we encountered were friendly and curious about us.  They don't see tourism on the same scale as their neighbor Buenos Aires, and it shows in how friendly they are towards foreigners.  Or maybe that's just how they treat everyone, who knows.  Either way, we could definitely understand why many Americans and Europeans have chosen to make Uruguay their home.  It seems like an easy place to enjoy life.

And so began the final day of our trip.  We woke up bright and early and walked the twenty blocks to the bus station, then caught a bus to Colonia, two hours away down the coast.  Colonia is a historic port town, with many of the original stone structures still standing.  It's been turned into a small tourist town, full of cafes and shops.  We had a few hours to kill wandering around here before our ferry arrived, and enjoyed our time here immensely, although some of that enjoyment may have been added to by our excitement to finally be going home!

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_101107.jpg" caption="The original gates of the town." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_101531.jpg" caption="The cobblestone streets overlooking the bay are very picturesque." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_101843.jpg" caption="The lighthouse, which we climbed for a small fee." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_102042.jpg" caption="We have seen variations on this sign outside bars from Dublin to Sydney, but this was the first time we'd seen it in Spanish! (Here beer colder than the heart of your ex)" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_102323.jpg" caption="Old car added for historic flavor?" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_102709.jpg" caption="This is such a South American thing.  Every road is named after an important date, which to us tourists all sound pretty much the same and are pretty impossible to keep straight." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_103825.jpg" caption="We figured our final meal of the trip needed to be something pretty special, so when we were ushered into a cozy little tea shop with a huge, beautiful patio overlooking the bay, it looked unique enough that we just had to try it!" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_110402.jpg" caption="High tea in Uruguay.  It seemed a little out of place and was very delicious.  Definitely a suitable last meal!" %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_121859.jpg" caption="Huge sycamores lined the streets here just as they had in Montevideo." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_122516.jpg" caption="There's something fishy about this car..." %}

{% include postpic.html file="IMG_20180202_125626.jpg" caption="We're going home!!! And there's our ferry!  Ok not really, but there's a different ferry that looks just like our ferry!" %}

We caught our ferry back to Buenos Aires, walked a mile to a bus station, and caught a bus to the airport which sat in rush hour traffic just long enough to make us sweat, but not long enough to make us miss our flight.  It was a very long day, but by 11 AM the next day we touched down at Reagan International. Home at last!

If you have followed our adventures this far, you are amazing.  We could have never had these fantastic experiences without the support and love of our friends and family-- YOU!  So THANK YOU!!  We feel incredibly lucky to have all you crazy people to come home to.  And, as many of you know, the adventure's not over yet.  We are currently traveling the US with our dog, living out of a teardrop trailer (we will go back to work at some point, I promise).
